So let's talk about taking great photographs great photographs right out of the gate can make a huge
difference.
Honestly I think the first two or three guests I got they came because I probably had good photographs
and much better for crafts than what you'd expect out of someone who just listed their space having
great photographs can make a huge difference in their trajectory when you first posted a listing.
The sooner you get bookings and the sooner you get reviews the sooner you're going to get up to a point
where you're charging the maximum you can for your property and everybody listening to this.
I know that that's what you want to write.
You want to get to the point where you're making the most money or you know you're hitting your rent
by taking the fewest guests or whatever gives you the best options.
If you get great photographs right out of the gate you can hit it with a running start.
So I boiled this down to four things that can dramatically make a difference in your photographs.
It's not going to get your photographs up to the point where they're as good as an Air B and B photograph
but it's good enough to have a strong launch and to get off on a good foot later you're going to sign
up for the free Airbnb photography and I include that as a link in the resource section of this lecture.
But before Airbnb can send you those photographers they need to make sure that you're serious and that
you have positive reviews.
You need to get to that point.
And the best way of doing that is by starting off strong with great photos.
Get your camera in hand and follow along.
Number one never take photographs in portrait.
Always take your photographs in landscape portrait if you're not familiar is when you take your camera
and you tilted vertically.
It's where it kind of looks like a rectangle except the with is thinner than the height.
There's several reasons why you don't want to do this.
First of all IT landscape always looks better.
It looks grander and makes your space look all more all encompassing.
Also when people look at your space you want to make your photographs match the way that human beings
see is space.
We don't see in portrait we see in landscape we have these you know our peripheral vision putting a
portrait shot is just not realistic that somehow people look at spaces.
Another reason portrait photographs look strange because they have bars on the sides of them and that
typically makes the room feel more confined or more constrained than it really is.
And that's not something you want your photographs convey you want to convey openness and to convey
space.
You never want to convey closed and confined.
The other reason why you never want to take portrait photographs is probably the biggest one FPN Web
site is not made for putting in portrait photographs.
If you look at their Web site everything on there is landscape it's all wide angle.
Occasionally you see people put portrait photographs in there and it just looks awful because Aramean
we set it up such they want we want landscape photos.
That bar issue we were talking about previously.
It gets much much worse when you try to add a portrait photo on Airbnb.
They just seem like a sliver of an image.
So that just conveys that you never took the time to understand what photographs look best.
You never took the time to understand what photographs airbnb wants from you.
It just conveys unprofessionalism.
But more importantly it just looks bad.
Number two this is the focus of your photograph.
What I mean by focus it's a couple things.
When you're taking a photograph of your space you want to make sure that there is a focal point.
There's something that you're focusing on in each shot.
So if you're taking a picture of say your kitchen the focal point is the kitchen space it doesn't necessarily
have to be on one individual thing in the space you want to make sure that each photograph kind of encapsulates
one aspect of your apartment or your home.
If you're taking a picture of your bedroom you want it to be probably of the bed.
Right.
That's the main thing in the room when someone looks at the photograph.
They want to be able to focus on the bed.
That's the biggest point of a bedroom.
Now if you're looking at your living room maybe you want to focus on the couch or focus maybe even on
the space in between if you have multiple couches.
What you want to avoid is making a photograph that doesn't have a focal point.
I see a lot of people on Urban be putting up photographs and it'll be of in between section of their
space.
You can't tell what you're supposed to be focusing on is that the painting is the couch.
Is it the TV over there.
It's just kind of confusing in your eyes of a hard time adjusting to the photograph you're not sure
what you're looking for so try not to waste photographs by taking something that isn't focused on something.
Now the second part of focus is just the clarity of the shot.
A lot of you if you have fidgety fingers you might notice that when you take photographs they might
come out blurry.
This is the way I suggest getting around this is when you take shots take a lot of shots so that when
you can go back and upload it on your computer you can see which ones came out right and which ones
didn't.
And you don't have to go back and try to recreate the shot all from scratch.
Another way of addressing this is you can get a tripod tripods are not extremely cheap but an extremely
expensive and if you have something setting around it could definitely help.
What I did is I just piled boxes on top of each other and I took a shot that way.
When you hold the camera you're going to want to try to take a shot from a vantage point that's similar
to the way you will look at the space.
Don't ever try to take the photographs down from like your belly button or your knees or over your head.
Somebody will take photographs like Birdseye views don't do that.
Try to take it from where you would naturally see it if you're walking into the space.
That's what's going to create the connection to the guest when the guest shows up.
That's going to make them see the space and go off.
This is what I booked number three and this is huge.
It's the light.
Make sure that you are optimizing your shots for getting in as much natural and artificial light as
you can.
The best type of light is natural light.
If you don't have natural light or you have limited natural light you can augment it with artificial
light but try your best to get the best natural light you can.
Now the best way of doing this is actually just to plan plan on taking your photographs when you know
your place is going to have the most light and be the most lit up for me.
I couldn't do it at say noon because noon is when the sun is directly above my apartment but I also
couldn't do it at say 4:00 p.m. because it's coming at an angle and one sided apartment would it be
dark all the other side to be light and also when I'm taking photographs the Suns would be popping into
the windows and obscuring the shot.
So for me the best time was like 1:00 p.m..
And similarly on the other side of the apartment was like 11:00 a.m..
You know your space and you know your area.
So you should probably know roughly when it's going to be the most let obviously do not take photographs
at night and that doesn't particularly make sense.
Try to take photographs and there's the most natural light if you have curtains open them up.
I know that sounds ridiculous that some people would leave them close.
But if you go near being B you can find lots of people who do this they forget to open their curtains.
They're essentially just depriving their space of light.
Light is incredibly important to getting good photography.
The look on Airbnb.
You'll see that it looks like every photograph that they have that's been done professionally has tons
and tons of light.
That's what you're trying to go after light makes it such that the person can see everything in the
shot when it's darker.
They can't see everything they can't see the detail.
If you don't have a ton of natural light you can augment this with artificial light the way that I was
doing this was if I was taking a picture of say a bedroom I would go and take a lamp from all of the
other rooms and put it in the bedroom and I turn that lamp on at a couple times when I was taking photos
of the hallway.
What I did was I took a bunch of lamps like the Standup Ikea lamps and I put them behind me and kind
of created this back like a fact and it gave the room a lot of light that otherwise naturally wouldn't
have gotten again.
Artificial lights not as great as natural light.
But the point is that you want as much light as possible.
And if you can't get the best kind of light then you can just settle for artificial.
Just try to get as much light as you can in the space.
One trick that will help you a lot in your search for trying to brightening up your space is that you
should always use your flash.
Now if you're using a DSL Lahr you might need to get a flash attachment to get the brightest photographs.
When you have R&B and the photography come out and do it you'll notice that they have a flash bulb attached
their DSL are all include in the resource section what it is exactly that I'm talking about when I reference
the flash bulb.
If you use that what it does is it times the photo of your camera with the flash.
It shoots a blast of light into the room as you take the photograph and it makes the room look so much
more bright than it usually is.
Now if you're not using a DSL or say you're on an iPhone just tried turning on the flash.
In nine years in that time it's going to make it such that your space is much brighter than it would
be if you hadn't put on the flash.
Sometimes it can backfire.
And what it does is actually kind of washes out all the detail in your image.
But try using the flash first if that doesn't work then you can always roll it back and try taking without
the flash and settle for that using Flash attachments can make a huge difference.
If you guys want to go crazy with this there's actually some online kits you can use that are similar
to professional lighting equipment that you set up outside the range of your shots.
And they push really soft light into your room and it makes it kind of have a professional touch to
it.
That's only for you guys that really want to go crazy with this.
And I would only suggest buying those things if you have some kind of need for them for something else.
The last tip that is going to help you get great photography is to prep each station before you take
a photograph.
So prep each room prep each section of the counter prep anything and you taking a photograph of.
Now I say prep What does that mean.
One D-CT or the space.
Take all your personal belongings out of it too.
You want to clean the space the best you possibly can because these photos are going to be immortalized.
You want it to look the absolute tip top it can look.
So it's important that you not only clean but detail each area that you do and go in and make sure that
every little bit you can is as good as you can.
You don't have to clean it this level of detail every time you clean your apartment.
But for the photographs you want to show it in its best form and then the last thing is that you want
to make sure that you put in items into the shot that you think will kind of accentuate the space and
make it look more polished.
Give you an example when I took a photograph of my kitchen.
I first noticed that there was nothing in the shot.
It's kind of drab.
All the colors I was picking up where the countertop and the floors and the cabinets and I wanted to
bring some light into some more color into it.
So what I did is I went to the other rooms in my place and I grabbed some things and I put them in there
and I went to a store and I grab these really colorful jars and I put them in the shop because they
were really brought some bright reds and greens into the shot.
That's a great way of doing a go of mind other things and put them in there.
Try to set it up to make it look exactly like when they show up and try to make it look like everything
they could possibly need is in the shot that's going to make it look much much nicer in my living room.
What I would do is I went and got fresh flowers.
I cut them put them in vases and then put them in the shots.
I usually get flowers for my guests but not all the time.
You don't have to get flowers for your guest.
It's a suggestion.
It does help.
But for the photographs I wanted to look as nice as possible.
And then it's up to you and you want to continue doing that.
I'd use two flower vases and honestly what I'm doing was cycling them throughout the rooms as I took
photos of each room.
Flowers Oh look fantastic.
That's one of those accents that you can add so when you do take your photography make sure that you
go all out in terms of amenities in terms of extras trinkets anything you can kind of add into the shot
to give it some character or give it some flavor.
Now in the next lecture I'm going to show you how you can quickly take these photographs throw them
on your computer.
Use software that everybody has and really bring out the awesomeness of your photographs.
I'm going to show you the tricks that Airbnb uses in their photographs.
I'm going to show you how you just at your home on your computer can take these photos and make them
almost as good as the professional photography that Airbnb gives you.
Now if you guys are at this point in the course and you're stuck because you don't have a camera skip
ahead and find the lecture in the section about how to get a free SLR camera.
That's one of my favorite hacks and it can really help you out and if you live anywhere near a city
you can pull it off.
Like always.
Hey guys any other questions anything you want me to elaborate on.
Posted in the group discussion or private message me.
Do you guys have any tips or tricks that you've used.
Make sure to post them in the discussion.
I'd love to throw those in here and augment them.
I really want to kind of crowd source all of the best ideas that everybody's had.
These are the four that I know that are repeatable and if you follow each for You'll always come away
with higher quality photography and it's going to put you at a really strong advantage right when you
launch your property which is really really important.